*AWS Solution architect

On premise setup disadvantages
1. Maintence of server
2. Increase wxpenditure
3. Data privacy and security
4. Scalbility and flexibility

Cloud computing - technology where resource is provided as service to user.
cloud provider - aws, azure, google cloud, alibaba, IBM, VMWare, Salesforce
AWS Job trends - 
1. AWS SysOps administrator
2. cloud developer
3. AWS solution architecture
4. cloud software engineer

Service domains in AWS
1. Compute - servers, workloads management
2. Storage - Binary files/images/audios/videos
3. Database - textual data/Non binary/structured data
4. Security - security to servers
5. Management - Monitoring
5. Customer Engagement - sending email/notifications
6. App integration - Job queue
-------------------------------
* Compute -
1. AWS EC2 - Integral part of aws eco system. enables on demand scalable computing capacity. fresh server machine. Single or multiple instances. Increase/decrease size. It is like IaaS. EC2 instance do not have restrictions, you can make it as DB server/app server etc.Raw server can make anything.
2. Elastic beanstalk - advance to ec2. It is web application server.It is like PaaS. Automated version of ec2. only used to deploy web service.
3. AWS Lambda - is a compute service that lets you run code without provisioning or managing server. Automated/advanced version of ec2.restriction - you cannot deploy website/host application.used only for backend processing.ex files storing with compression. Data transformation. It takes a multiple job and execute on multiple server
4. AWS Loadbalancer - distributes incoming application or network traffic across multiple targets such as amazon ec2 instances, containers, multiple IP addresses, multiple availability zones. 
5. AWS ECR(Elastic Container Registry) - is a fully managed docker container registry that makes it easy for developers to manage, store and deploy docker container images.
6. AWS ECS(Elastic Container Service) - is a highly scalable, high performance container orchestration that supports docker containers and allows you to easily run and scale containerized applications in AWS.
7. Autoscaling - monotors application and automatically adjusts the capacity to maintain steady, predictable performance at lowesr possible cost. It comes with load balancer

aws.amazon.com

* Storage - 
1. Amazon s3 - Object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security and performance.
2. Amazon glacier - secure, durable and extremely low cost cloud storage service for data archieving and long term backup. cheap than S3. backup server. time to retrieve object is more than s3. 
3. Amazon Elastic file system(EFS) - provides a simple, scalable, elastic file system for linus based workloads for use with aws cloud services and on-premise resources.
4. AWS Storage gateway - 













